Added new kb article grid-show-tooltip-on-column-header (#2756)
telerik/blazor-docs: knowledge-base/grid-show-tooltip-on-column-header.md

            <HeaderTemplate>
                <span class="@HeaderClass">
                    Long Employee Name
                </span>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Team))" />
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

<TelerikTooltip TargetSelector=".employee-header"
                Class="my-callout">
    <Template>
        Long Employee Name
    </Template>
</TelerikTooltip>

<style>
    .my-callout .k-callout {
        left: 30px !important;
    }
</style>

@code {
    private string HeaderClass { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    private string HeaderId { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    private TelerikGrid<SampleData> GridRef { get; set; } = null!;

    private IEnumerable<SampleData> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 10).Select(x => new SampleData
        {
            Id = x,
            Name = "name " + x,
            Team = "team" + x
        });

    private async Task HandleColumnWidthChange(GridStateEventArgs<SampleData> args)
    {
        var employeeColumnWidth = args.GridState.ColumnStates.First(c => c.Index == 1).Width.Replace("px", "");
        var columnWidth = double.Parse(employeeColumnWidth);

>         if (columnWidth < 160)

Reviewer: How do you implement this with column reordering enabled and for multiple columns?

        {
            HeaderClass = "employee-header";
        }
        else
        {
            HeaderClass = string.Empty;
        }

        await GridRef.SetStateAsync(args.GridState);
    }

    public class SampleData
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public string Team { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    }
}
````

The additional CSS is used to adjust the position of the tooltip callout. Modify this CSS based on your application's specific layout and design requirements.

> ## See Also

Reviewer: Cross-link with https://www.telerik.com/blazor-ui/documentation/knowledge-base/tooltip-in-grid

---
title: Adding Tooltips to Grid Column Headers with Ellipsis in Blazor
description: Learn how to display tooltips on Blazor Grid column headers when the text is truncated due to column resizing.
type: how-to
page_title: How to Show Tooltips on Truncated Grid Column Headers in Blazor
slug: grid-kb-show-tooltip-on-column-header
tags: grid, blazor, tooltip, column header, template, ellipsis
res_type: kb
ticketid: 1677858
---

## Description

> When the column headers in a [Grid for Blazor](slug:components/grid/) are too long for the column width, they may be truncated with an ellipsis. In such cases, adding tooltips to the headers can help display the full text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the column headers in a [Telerik Grid for Blazor](slug:grid-overview) are too long for the column width, they may be truncated with an ellipsis. In such cases, adding tooltips to the headers can help display the full text.
```

This knowledge-base article also answers the following questions:

- How to add Tooltip to Grid column header in Blazor?
- How to show Tooltip only for truncated column headers in a Blazor Grid?
- How to customize Grid column headers in Blazor?

> ## Solution

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Solution

```

To display Tooltip for Grid column headers that are truncated, follow the steps below:

> 1. Use the [Column Header Template](slug:components/grid/templates/column-header#column-header-template) to customize the header content. Wrap the header content in a `<span>` HTML element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Use the [Column Header Template](slug:components/grid/templates/column-header#column-header-template) to customize the header content. Wrap the header content in a `<span>` HTML element with a predefined CSS class.
```

> 2. Monitor the column width changes by utilizing the [Grid State](slug:components/grid/state) and its [ColumnState](slug:components/grid/state#information-in-the-grid-state) property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Monitor the column width changes](slug:grid-kb-column-state) by using the [Grid `OnStateChanged` event](slug:components/grid/state#onstatechanged) and the [`ColumnState`](slug:components/grid/state#information-in-the-grid-state) property of the `GridState`.
```

> 3. Use [TelerikTooltip](slug:components/tooltip/overview) component to display tooltip for each column header.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Use a [TelerikTooltip](slug:components/tooltip/overview) component to display tooltip for each column header.
```

4. Apply a custom CSS class to the column header content when the width of the column is insufficient to display its full content.

>caption Show TelerikTooltip on the Grid column header

````RAZOR

> <strong>Reduce the width of some columns to observe the expected result</strong>
> <br/>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<p><strong>Resize and shrink some columns to observe the expected result</strong></p>.

```

<TelerikGrid Data="@MyData" Resizable="true"
             OnStateChanged="@((GridStateEventArgs<SampleData> args) => HandleColumnWidthChange(args))"
             @ref="GridRef"
             Reorderable="true" Width="510px">
    <GridColumns>

>         <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Id))" Width="130px">

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <GridColumn Field="@nameof(SampleData.Id)" Width="130px">
```

                    Unique Identifier
                </span>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>

        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Name))" Width="165px">
            <HeaderTemplate>
                <span title="Long Employee Name"
                      class="@(ShowTooltip.GetValueOrDefault(nameof(SampleData.Name), false) ? "employee-header" : "")">
                    Long Employee Name
                </span>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>

        <GridColumn Field="@(nameof(SampleData.Team))" Width="210px">
            <HeaderTemplate>
                <span title="Extremely Long Team Name"
                      class="@(ShowTooltip.GetValueOrDefault(nameof(SampleData.Team), false) ? "employee-header" : "")">
                    Extremely Long Team Name
                </span>
            </HeaderTemplate>
        </GridColumn>
    </GridColumns>
</TelerikGrid>

<TelerikTooltip TargetSelector=".employee-header" Class="my-callout">
</TelerikTooltip>

<style>
    .my-callout .k-callout {
        left: 30px !important;
    }

> </style>

Reviewer: If this tweak is not important for the KB, we can remove it for simplicity.

@code {

>     private TelerikGrid<SampleData> GridRef { get; set; } = null!;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    private TelerikGrid<SampleData>? GridRef { get; set; }
```

    private IEnumerable<SampleData> MyData = Enumerable.Range(1, 10).Select(x => new SampleData
        {
            Id = x,

>             Name = "name " + x,
>             Team = "team" + x

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            Name = $"Name {x}",
            Team = $"Team {x % 3 + 1}"
```

        });

    // Define minimum width requirements for tooltips
    private static readonly Dictionary<string, double> MinColumnWidths = new()
    {
        { nameof(SampleData.Id), 125 },
        { nameof(SampleData.Name), 160 },
        { nameof(SampleData.Team), 205 }
    };

    // Store whether a tooltip should be shown for each column
    private Dictionary<string, bool> ShowTooltip = new();

    private async Task HandleColumnWidthChange(GridStateEventArgs<SampleData> args)
    {
        foreach (var column in args.GridState.ColumnStates)
        {
            string columnField = column.Field;
            if (MinColumnWidths.TryGetValue(columnField, out double minWidth))
            {
                double currentWidth = double.Parse(column.Width.Replace("px", ""));
                ShowTooltip[columnField] = currentWidth < minWidth;
            }
        }

>         await GridRef.SetStateAsync(args.GridState);

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        await GridRef!.SetStateAsync(args.GridState);
```

    }

    public class SampleData
    {
        public int Id { get; set; }
        public string Name { get; set; } = string.Empty;
        public string Team { get; set; } = string.Empty;
    }
}
````

> The additional CSS is used to adjust the position of the tooltip callout. Modify this CSS based on your application's specific layout and design requirements.

## See Also
- [Grid Column Header Template Documentation](slug:components/grid/templates/column-header#column-header-template)
- [Telerik Tooltip Overview](slug:components/tooltip/overview)

> - [Tooltip Template Feature](slug:components/tooltip/template)

Reviewer: Tooltip templates are not used in the KB, so we can remove this link for brevity.
